# Introduction
In order to satisfy the requirements of the variety of network applications and the convergence between network physical media in heterogeneous network, a new link scheduling algorithm based on priority of data, link status and traffic flow density (PTLCSA) is proposed by improving traditional data-link layer protocol in Vehicular Ad Hoc Network(VANET). At first, based on the four types of vehicle data in vehicle networking standard, data priority is proposed to indicate the sending weight of different data. Meanwhile, delay factor and load factor are proposed to evaluate link status in real time. Then, based on data priority, delay factor, load factor and traffic flow density, data priority matching degree (DPMD) of link is proposed, and according to Pareto optimal, the upper bound of non-WSM maximal distribution frequency about IEEE 802.11p link is presented, which provide theoretical foundation for data frames to select links. And then, based on DPMD and the upper bound of non-WAVE Short Message(non-WSM) maximal distribution frequency, PTLCSA is designed and realized, and the time complexity of PTLCSA is analyzed in this paper. Finally, simulation results show that on the premise that satisfying the Quality of Experience(QoE) of most network applications, PTLCSA can reduce the delay of security applications and improve the utilization ratio of links.
# PTLCSA Algorithm
Combining the above content, this section puts forward the new concept of data priority matching degree of the link(DPMD), and puts forward the link scheduling algorithm PTLCSA based on delay and load of the link as well as packet priority on the premise that the traffic flow density is considered, to realize the heterogeneous network convergence at LLC layer, ensure communication requirements of other types of applications on the premise of meeting QoE of security applications, and improve the utilization ratio of links.
## Design of PTLCSA Algorithm
In PTLCSA, this paper combines data priority with delay and load of links and traffic flow density of vehicle mobile environment to calculate DPMDs of multiple links in heterogeneous network, to dynamically adjust link load and ensure full utilization of link resources on the premise that transmission requirements of WSM is ensured. The structure chart of the algorithm is shown in as follow, in which obtainment of data type, calculation and comparison of DPMD of each link, and calculation of the maximum distribution frequency of non-WSM are key parts of PTLCSA.
Obtainment of data type. Whenever the vehicle wants to send packets, the packet will be transported downward to LLC layer from upper layer, and LLC layer will carry out judgment of data type according to the priority of the packet. If the packet is WSM, it will be distributed directly into the IEEE 802.11p link, to ensure the transmission requirement and QoE of security applications.
